Blog: Switching from master to main (#645)
voxpupuli/voxpupuli.github.io: _posts/2026-03-20-master-to-main.md

---
layout: post
title: Group Project: Switching from `master` to `main`
date: 2026-03-20
github_username: rwaffen
---

Hi @everyone 👋, we have a lot of repositories, and we want to make sure that we are using inclusive language across all of them.
Also `main` is the default branch name on GitHub, so it makes sense to switch to it.
This change can be  alot of work, so we thought we let everybody participate in the process and do it together.

If you touch any repository and got some extra time to spend, please switch the default branch to `main` and update your local clones accordingly.

<!-- TODO: Can everyone do this or do we need some special rights to do this? -->

> If you are a repository maintainer you can switch the default branch in the repository settings on GitHub.

Author: added you reference link. thx :)

---
layout: post
title: Group Project: Switching from `master` to `main`
date: 2026-03-20
github_username: rwaffen
---

Hi @everyone 👋, we have a large number of repositories, and we want to establish a clear and consistent standard for how we name our default branches across the organization.

> This is not only about using inclusive language, but also about improving clarity, reducing confusion, and aligning with current defaults such as main on GitHub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The reason for this change is to align with current defaults on GitHub, upcoming changes to Git itself, as well as standardizing language, improving clarity, and reducing confusion of having different repositories with different defaults.
```
